# Ancient-Pharmaceutical-Encyclopedias-of-China
This is a GIS database of the origin place of medicines recorded in ancient pharmaceutical encyclopedias.

# **Introduction**
    The genre of *bencao* 本草 has a long history in China. As the compilation of the knowledge about medicines and their therapeutic effects and usages, *bencao* records people’s exploitation of natural resources and the boundary of their knowledge. *Shennong bencao jing* 神农本草经, which was probably compiled in the second or first century BCE, was the earliest book of the genre. *Shennong bencao jing* classified medicines into three classes according to their toxic properties—the upper class 上品, the middle class 中品 and the lower class 下品. The 120 upper-class medicines are believed to cause no harm to human body, even if patients overdose; the 120 middle-class medicines are moderately toxic, and patients should be given appropriate dosage; the 125 lower-class medicines are highly toxic, and patients should be cautious of their dangerous side-effects.  
    
  In the sixth century CE, Tao Hongjing 陶弘景 revised the structure of *shennong bencao jing*, and hie revision was called *Shennong bencao jing jizhu* 神农本草经集注. Tao also commented on *Shenong bencao jing* and added new medicines. Tao’s revision of the structure of *bencao* has far-reaching effects on the genre—he further categorized medicines in *shenong bencao jing* which had been classified according to toxicity into seven categories (mineral, plant, insect and animal, fruit and vegetable, rice, and food), which was widely adopted and expanded by later *bencao* authors. The next important version of *bencao* is *xinxiu bencao* 新修本草, which was compiled by Su Jing 苏敬 and other Tang officials from 657 CE to 659 CE. *Xinxiu bencao* is believed to be the first government-sponsored pharmacopoeia whose authority was enforced by law. 

  Since the nature of the *bencao* genre is a comprehensive collection of natural objects from animals to plants and minerals, it reflects people’s engagement with natural resources that was continuously renewed through time. This project aims to analyze origins of medicines recorded in the three books from Han to Tang from a spatial perspective in order to reconstruct ancient people’s knowledge of nature in different time periods. Because there are a large amount of medicines recorded in the three books, this project will focus on medicines in the category of mineral. There are three aspects that the project mainly focuses on: first, the change of the distribution pattern of medicines from Han to Tang; second, the factor that affects the precision of locations in bencao books; third, the spatial factor that affects the categorization of the three classes of medicines.
  
# **Findings**
    The first aspect to be examined is the change of distribution pattern through time. The result suggests that the spatial scale of in different phases has relationship with historical context and the personal experience of compilers. Though *shennong bencao jing* was probably compiled not by a single person at a specific time but by a group of people through time, the context of the writers is clear. In the Han dynasty, the core region of the empire is in northern China. Places recorded in *shennong bencao jing* mostly concentrate in the north and several of them are in Sichuan which was a relatively developed area in southern China (Figure.1). For other regions in southern China, especially hilly hinterland, there are little places mentioned in the book even though they had rich mineral resources. This phenomenon suggests that though the Han Empire had already conquered lots of regions in the south like Southwest Yi 西南夷, Nanyue 南越 and Dongyue 东越, people’s knowledge of natural resources was still limited to core regions of the empire in the north. 
 
Figure.1 Distribution Map in Han Dynasty

  However, the south was given more attention by Tao Hongjing who lived in Southern Qi 南齐 in the Northern and Southern Dynasties 南北朝 (Figure.2). The capital of Southern Qi is in Jian Kang 建康, which is in today’s Nanjing. Tao was born in Jian Kang and served in the royal court there as a scholar. Then, he retired in Maoshan 茅山, a mountain near Jian Kang. In the preface of *shennong bencao jing jizhu*, Tao mentioned that the book was written during his retirement. Therefore, because of Tao’s personal experiences, the region of Jiangnan 江南, the lower reaches of the Yangtze river where Jian Kang locate, was given enough attention: there are three places mentioned Wu Xing 吴兴, Qian Tang 钱塘 and Maoshan 茅山 that appears twice in the book. Tao Hongjing also added many new places in the south into his comments to *shennong bencao jing*, which is the reflection of the development of southern China under the reign of Southern Dynasties. Except southern China, many other regions in northern China were also included, which suggests that even though China was divided at that time, the communication between north and south didn’t cease. 
 
Figure.2 Distribution Map in Northern and Southern Dynasties

  The distribution of places in Tang dynasty weights north and south equally, which is because of the unified nature of Tang. Additionally, more oversea places were mentioned like *shizi guo* 师子国 (Sri Lanka), *bosi guo* 波斯国 (Persia), *gaoli* 高丽 (Korean Peninsula), and *funan* 扶南 (probably in Cambodia), which reflects intensified international communications at that time. 
 
Figure.3 Distribution Map of Tang Dynasty

  The second aspect to be examined is the relationship between space and the precision of locations. According to population data of prefectures in 2CE from 中国历代户口、田地、田赋统计, a heat-map was drawn as the background of the map. The result suggests that the precision of places has relationship with population (Figure.4). Many places with high precision are around the core regions of the Han Dynasty (simply assume that population density reflects core regions). It may suggest that people’s knowledge of the environment is still limited to the surrounding area of the places where they lived.  
 
Figure.4 Comparison of Precision of Places and Population
  
  The third aspect to be examined is the influence of space on the tertiary classification system (upper, middle, and lower). The result shows that medicines from distant parts of the empire has higher possibility to be categorized under the level of upper probably because they were difficult to acquire. Places with ritual values, like Taishan 泰山 and Songshan 嵩山, contributes to many upper-level medicines. Their symbolic value possibly influenced the classification system. Then, the middle-class medicines probably refer to those medicines that people know well. Most of the middle-class medicines come from the north, the place that the compiler came from. Because of the popularity of such medicines, they would be classified as middle-class. The south has much less middle-class medicines than any other regions, which is probably because that it is the most difficult place to reach and medicines there are completely new for compilers from the north.  
